#
#  $Id$
#

This is the RTEMS entry in the Crossgcc FAQ at http://www.objsw.com.
As of 8/19/99, it has been submitted twice and the FAQ not updated.

RTEMS is a freely available, royalty free real-time executive with
multiprocessor capabilities.  RTEMS' design provides performance and
capabilities are comparable to those of the best commercial executives.
The directive execution times and other critical performance measures such
as interrupt latency are best of class. RTEMS was developed by On-Line
Applications Research Corporation (OAR) under contract to the U.S. Army
Missile Command. 


RTEMS includes support for multiple APIs.  Currently RTEMS supports a
POSIX threads API, and an RTEID based API which is similar to pSOS+. 
RTEMS includes a number of advanced real-time features including optional
rate monotonic scheduling support, binary semapahores with priority
inheritance, and watchdog timer functions. 

RTEMS includes a port of the FreeBSD TCP/IP stack that has high
performance on very modest hardware.  A remote debug server is supported
on some targets that allows debugging across the network. 

RTEMS provides a rich run-time environment with a reentrant C library,
POSIX 1003.1b support, and file system support.  It also includes optional
debug aids like stack overflow and heap integrity checking. 

RTEMS is built using GNU autoconf and can be built on any host supporting
the GNU tools including Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, Solaris, and MS-Windows to
name but a few.  The current RTEMS release supports a the following CPU
families: 

  Motorola m680x0, m683xx, and ColdFire
  Motorola and IBM PowerPC (4xx, 6xx, 7xx, and 8xx) 
  Hitachi SH-1
  Intel i386, i486, Pentium, and i960
  SPARC
  MIPS
  HP PA-RISC
  AMD A29K

There are over 35 Board Support Packages included with RTEMS including
BSPs for the SPARC and PowerPC simulators included with gdb.  There are
numerous BSPs for CPUs targetting the embedded market such as the Motorola
m683xx and mpc8xx series which support the on-CPU peripherals. 

WWW: 

http://www.OARcorp.com

E-mail: 

rtems-info@OARcorp.com or
Joel Sherrill (joel@OARcorp.com)

