#
#  $Id$
#

RTEMS was developed by On-Line Applications Research (OAR) under
contract to the U.S. Army Missile Command.  Other than the
contributions listed in this document, all code and documentation
was developed by OAR for the Army.

The RTEMS project would like to thank those who have made
contributions to the project.  Together we make RTEMS a
much better product.

The following persons/organizations have made contributions:

+ Dr. Mikhail (Misha) Savitski (mms@eiscathq.irf.se) of the EISCAT Scientific
  Association submitted the BSP and other miscellaneous support for the
  Motorola MVME162 (M68040LC CPU) VMEbus single board computer.

+ Division Inc. of Chapel Hill, NC for sponsoring On-Line Applications
  Research to port RTEMS to the Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC architecture (V1.1)
  and the addition of HP-UX as a development host. Tony Bennett
  (tbennett@divnc.com) was assisted in this effort by Joel Sherrill
  (jsherril@redstone.army.mil).  Tony also deserves a big pat on the
  back for contributing significantly to the overall organization
  of the development environment and directory structure.  RTEMS
  is much easier to build because of Tony.

+ Greg Allen of Division Inc. of Chapel Hill, NC for 
  porting RTEMS to HP-UX.  This port treats a UNIX computer as simply
  another RTEMS target processor.  This port can be used to develop 
  and test code which will ultimately run on the embedded platform.

+ Doug McBride (mcbride@rodin.colorado.edu) of the Colorado Space Grant
  College at the University of Colorado at Boulder submitted the BSP
  for the Motorola IDP board (M68EC040 CPU) single board computer.  The
  BSP leverages heavily off of the existing RTEMS BSP framework, the
  examples in the back of the IDP user's manual, and the libgloss example
  support for the IDP board from the newlib/libgloss distribution.

+ David Glessner (dwg@glenqcy.glenayre.com) of Glenayre Electronics
  submitted the support for the Motorola MC68302 CPU.  This included 
  the "gen68302" BSP which uses the on-chip peripherals on the MC68302 
  as well as the modifications to the m68k dependent executive code to 
  support m68k family members based on the mc68000 core.

+ Bryce Cogswell (cogswell@cs.uoregon.edu) submitted the support for MS-DOS 
  as a development environment as well as djgpp/go32 as a target environment.

+ Andy Bray (andy@i-cubed.demon.co.uk) of I-CUBED Ltd. in Cambridge U.K.
  for porting RTEMS to the PowerPC.  This effort included support for the
  IBM 403 as well as the Motorola 601, 603, and 604 variants.  A special
  thanks to Dom Latter (dom@i-cubed.demon.co.uk) for being an RTEMS
  evangelist and promoting the use of RTEMS both at I-CUBED Ltd. as well  
  as within the Internet community as a whole.

+ John S. Gwynne (jsg@coulomb.eng.ohio-state.edu) of Ohio State University 
  submitted the support for the Motorola MC68332 CPU as well as completing 
  the support for CPUs based on the MC68000 core.  This included the "efi68k" 
  and "efi332" BSPs as well as completing the modifications to the m68k 
  dependent executive code to support m68k family members based on the 
  MC68000 core.  "efi68k" and "efi332" are single board computers designed 
  primarily for automotive electronic fuel injection (EFI) control, but can 
  be considered general purpose controllers when used without the EFI 
  companion board(s). See the README in each BSP for more information.

+ The European Space Agency for sponsoring On-Line Applications Research 
  to port RTEMS to the SPARC V7 architecture for use with their ERC32
  radiation-hardened CPU.  Jiri Gaisler (jgais@wd.estec.esa.nl) deserves
  special thanks for championing this port within the ESA was well as
  for developing and supporting the SPARC Instruction Simulator used to 
  develop and test this port.

+ Eric Norum (eric@skatter.usask.ca) of the Saskatchewan Accelerator
  Laboratory submitted the support for the Motorola MC68360 CPU
  including the `gen68360' BSP.

Finally, the RTEMS project would like to thank those who have contributed
to the other free software efforts which RTEMS utilizes.  The primary RTEMS
development environment is from the Free Software Foundation (the GNU
project).  The "newlib" C library was put together by Cygnus and is
a collaboration of the efforts of numerous individuals and organizations.

We would like to see your name here.  BSPs and ports are always welcome.
Useful libraries which support RTEMS applications are also an important
part of providing a strong foundation for the development of real-time
embedded applications and are welcome as submission.

