This "shar" file contains the documentation for the
electronic mail distribution of the Dhrystone benchmark (C version 2.1);
a companion "shar" file contains the source code.
(Because of mail length restrictions for some mailers, I have
split the distribution in two parts.)

For versions in other languages, see the other "shar" files.

Files containing the C version (*.h: Header File, *.c: C Modules)

  dhry.h
  dhry_1.c
  dhry_2.c
  
The file RATIONALE contains the article 

  "Dhrystone Benchmark: Rationale for Version 2 and Measurement Rules"

which has been published, together with the C source code (Version 2.0),
in SIGPLAN Notices vol. 23, no. 8 (Aug. 1988), pp. 49-62.
This article explains all changes that have been made for Version 2,
compared with the version of the original publication
in Communications of the ACM vol. 27, no. 10 (Oct. 1984), pp. 1013-1030.
It also contains "ground rules" for benchmarking with Dhrystone
which should be followed by everyone who uses the program and publishes
Dhrystone results.

Compared with the Version 2.0 published in SIGPLAN Notices, Version 2.1
contains a few corrections that have been made after Version 2.0 was
distriobuted over the UNIX network Usenet. These small differences between
Version 2.0 and 2.1 should not affect execution time measurements.
For those who want to compare the exact contents of both versions,
the file "dhry_c.dif" contains the differences between the two versions,
as generated by a file comparison of the corresponding files with the
UNIX utility "diff".

The file VARIATIONS contains the article

  "Understanding Variations in Dhrystone Performance"

which has been published in Microprocessor Report, May 1989
(Editor: M. Slater), pp. 16-17. It describes the points that users
should know if C Dhrystone results are compared.

Recipients of this shar file who perform measurements are asked
to send measurement results to the author and/or to Rick Richardson.
Rick Richardson publishes regularly Dhrystone results on the UNIX network
Usenet. For submissions of results to him (preferably by electronic mail,
see address in the program header), he has provided a form which is contained
in the file "submit.frm".


The following files are contained in other "shar" files:

Files containing the Ada version (*.s: Specifications, *.b: Bodies):

  d_global.s
  d_main.b
  d_pack_1.b
  d_pack_1.s
  d_pack_2.b
  d_pack_2.s

File containing the Pascal version:

  dhry.p


February 22, 1990

                 Reinhold P. Weicker
                 Siemens AG, AUT E 51
                 Postfach 3220
                 D-8520 Erlangen
                 Germany (West)

                 Phone:  [xxx-49]-9131-7-20330  (8-17 Central European Time)
                 UUCP:   ..!mcsun!unido!estevax!weicker
